I argue that the lack of parity among evaluative practices, between female reviewers and male reviewers when evaluating female and male authors creates genres based on gender, compartmentalizing the value of female authors in three ways.
  
  
First, male reviewers utilize fewer comparisons to canonical poets for female authors than for male authors, and rarely utilize female poets from the literary canon in their comparisons.  Contemporary female poets receive disproportionately less canonical admiration than male poets from male reviewers, though this may be less significant if female authors are mostly reviewed by female reviewers.  This trend suggests that the maleness of reviewers historically does explain the dearth of female authors in the literary canon via the reticence among male reviewers to dole out canonical poet comparisons to female authors.  Yet the tendency to tincture the value of female authors as female and thereby circumscribe female authors from male authors holds across all reviewers as the next paragraph shows and, thus, cannot be explained strictly by the genders of reviewers.
  
  
Second, reviewers implicitly posit that male poets are dissimilar to female poets by only comparing male authors to male canonical poets.  This holds even for female reviewers, who compare female authors to male and female canonical poets equally.  In this way, an underlying tenet that male poets may only be like other male poets circumscribes male poets as distinct from female poets, even while simultaneously female reviewers assert that female poets may be like male or female poets.  The effect is that the genres based on gender remain as male poets are cordoned off from a certain section of the literary canon and ascribed a different value than female poets.
  
  
Third, reviewers commonly mark female authors as female and build the value of the work on concepts explicitly identified as female.  Simultaneously, the strategies for male authors--which male and female reviewers share--remain distinct from the strategies for female authors and base the value of the work on concepts not explicitly linked with gender.  In this way, reviewers utilize different evaluative practices for male and female authors; gender is woven into the values of female poets, whereas universality is woven into the values of male poets.  