Female authors are marked as female often and, through this marking, connected to specifically "female" values; this is not mirrored for male authors, by male or female reviewers.  Male authors often go unmarked regarding gender and are linked to genderless or "universal" values.  Even while reviewers, particularly female reviewers, utilize interpretive strategies which value female authors through linking these authors to their gender, the strategies for male authors--which male and female critics share--differ from the strategies for female authors.  I argue that these strategies create two discrepant bases for the value of the work:  female authors are linked to "female" concepts, while male authors are linked to "genderless" ones.
  
  
I group the ways that reviewers utilized gender markings into three categories:  (a) gendering content, (b) valorizing the author, and (c) utilizing feminism and gender politics.
  
  
"Gendering content" refers to cases where the reviewer referenced gender regarding the content of the work, such as when a reviewer says that Tanya Larkin "sweeps us into the world of girls", and, later, that "the female reigns in the world of these poems" (Frank 2013).  These quotations evidence a gendered way of interpreting the poetry's content without specifically referencing the author.
  
  
"Valorizing the author" describes when reviewers mention the author's gender, integrating this information explicitly with the evaluation of the work.  For example, a reviewer claims that poet A.E. Stallings' "greatest gift may be her female, if not necessarily feminist, perspective on ancient myths" (Telman 2012).
  
  
"Feminism and gender politics" comprises the third category of how reviewers used gender in the reviews.  In one example, the reviewer explicitly interprets the book of poems as a "feminist site", while another evaluates the book in light of "the speaker often [drawing] on her marginalization as a female."  The value of the work is colored by gender, linking the book's worth to its significance for women in relationship to feminism and gender politics.