The newest edition of the authoritative Norton Anthology of Poetry (Ferguson, Salter, and Stallworthy 2005) demonstrates the disadvantage female poets encounter in literary canonization:  264 male poets and 74 female poets are included.  Though this anthology isn't the only measure of literary canonization, research articulates the institutional processes which historically excluded women from the literary canon (Corse and Westervelt 2002; Tuchman and Fortin 1980, 1984).
  
  
Literary critics "make descriptive, interpretative and evaluative statements on literary texts" and serve as gatekeepers in the literary canonization process (Van Rees 1983, 400; 1987).  Literary canonization refers to the process by which a text earns the status of a highly valued cultural artifact.  To direct their evaluations of fiction and poetry, critics rely on critical-literary theories (Corse and Griffin 1997; Corse and Westervelt 2002; Van Rees 1987) or cultural categories such as race and ethnicity (Chong 2011) or gender (Schmutz and Faupel 2010).  As well as the critical-literary theories available and pervasive cultural categories, literary critics follow the evaluative practices of the discipline.  Evaluative practices involve a cultural process of sorting and using the appropriate value-making terms for the given category of work, within a constrained system or "evaluative culture" (Lamont 2012; 2009, 4).
  
  
The present study empirically probes the strategies that American reviewers of poetry books utilize in their evaluations of male and female authors.  This article contributes to work on gender and evaluation through an in-depth textual analysis of how literary critics evaluate male and female poets.  Here I ask, what are the evaluative practices whereby poetry book reviewers distinguish male and female poets?  And, how do these practices differ based on the gender of the reviewer and the context of the review process?  Furthermore, are the availability of new interpretive strategies for valuing female authors and the presence of women among literary critics sufficient to reverse female authors' absence in the literary canon and generate identical values for male and female authors, as previous research suggests?