The sample comprises 231 poetry book reviews published in 9 American literary magazines in 2012 and 2013.  The magazines (New York Quarterly, Rattle, Drunken Boat, Poetry, Boxcar Poetry Review, Valparaiso Poetry Review, Colorado Review, Iowa Review, and Kenyon Review) are situated throughout the U.S. and have wide readerships in the American poetry community.  The journals were chosen to represent a range of literary aesthetics, prestige, and book review styles within American poetry.
  
  
In analyzing the evaluative practices of the reviewers, I identified two practices on which to focus based on previous research:  (1) how reviewers compare poets to other artists and the literary canon, and (2) how reviewers utilize gender-marking to construct value.
  
  
Regarding the first concern, comparisons to other artists or works epitomize the kind of value ascribed to an artwork.  In order to investigate this practice, I coded the reviews for comparisons to other persons.  To be coded as comparisons, persons mentioned had to fulfill two requirements:  (1) draw a link between the book or author being reviewed and the referenced person, and (2) not be allusions explicitly mentioned by the author or work, such as epigraphs.  From this list, I crosschecked each referenced name with the contents of the Norton Anthology of Poetry (5th Edition) to denote the person's presence or absence in the poetic literary canon.
  
  
With the second coding scheme, I analyze directly how gender is "marked" in the reviews and linked with the value of the book (Waugh 1982).  The notion of marking is generally used to describe the marking of a person or work as non-white, versus white going unmarked.  Though here I appropriate the concept to gender:  the female work marked as female, and the male work unmarked.  Explicit references to gender in the reviews demonstrate the "marking" of reviews as female.  I examine how explicit references to gender inform the reviewer's evaluation strategies and, in particular, how gender constitutes the value of the work.  To investigate this evaluative practice, I coded the reviews for all gendered words, excluding pronouns.  These words included, among others, female, male, feminine, masculine, matriarch, patriarch.  A full list may be found in the completed paper.